 As you know the MMRA maintains a network of 22 repeaters.  A
repeater is basically a receiver, a transmitter and a controller
in-between. While the network generally works, there are some upgrades
we are continually working on.  One of these efforts being led
by me, James N1DDK, is developing a new repeater controller to enhance
the remote controllability, monitoring and adjusting of the
repeaters. Most of the repeater controller in use today are based on
designs over 20 years old. There have been many advances in
technology in the past 20 years. This project is bringing a more
modern, more scalable and more software based and controllable
approach based on mostly standard hardware and using popular modern
methods.

 There are some guiding principles to this project:
1) No Jumpers, switches or mechanical pots that can be set incorectly at a site needing a return visit.
2) Open source -- its part of the Ham culture to experiment and share. This will also ensure longevity of the project beyond the initial developers.
3) Better ease of use than similar commercial products.
4) Scaleability and cost per port more effective than the commercial products.
5) Mostly software for simple functions like CTCSS encode / decode, DTMF encode / decode, timers, morse etc.
6) Well documented

Goals
 * Ease of use for users and control operators.
 * Web back end to view status and control linking.
 * Ability to sell hardware as a fundraiser for MMRA.

To this end I have been working mostly solo with some input from K1IW and W1BRI (and some non members) and I have a working prototype on the air on 224.080 as part of a test platform. The next goals will be to make some boards and have further testing and development.

Here is a list of some of the help that is desired:
 * Programming help in C and Python (possibly java/java script for some of the web interface)
 * Schematics design/review for the custom audio board.
 * Documentation help -- there is some basic documentation, but it would be good to have much more on both hardware, software and user guides.
 * Mechanical/sheet metal design for an enclosure, etc
 * Building help, both mechanical and building the initial boards for testing.
 * Testing help using the controller on a bench and trying things before we put them on the air.
 * On the air testing.

Want to learn more?
 There is a git-hub repository for the software, documentation and issue tracking:
https://github.com/jmlzone/PiPtr
There may be a talk about the project at Boxborough!

Even if you don't know anything about software or repeater controllers you can still help! You don't need to know anything to be a documentation volunteer!

Ready to help?
Contact James, n1ddk@mmra.org.
